>> Steve Kinney: There's another
one here called Socialite,
which is a social media app.
It's great, you should totally use it.
And it has the ability
to post stuff as well.
And so your job is to npm start.
And this one's a little bit more fun,
because unlike
the rest of them that had
a hard coded set of users,
you can go ahead and sign up too, right?
You can make an account, and
if it's running on localhost,
you can talk to yourself all day.
You can make two accounts and
talk to yourself, too, that seems legit.
And let's see if we can kind of
create a version of the same attack.
You could even take that
meme page I had at evil and
just point it at a different localhost and
be good, right?
You can set up your own page.
You can do whatever makes you happiest,
right, but let's try it out.
And it'll be the same technique to fix it,
but I think there's enough step in
this one that it's worth getting your
hands dirty to generate a token with
the session, put it in here if
you can watch me sign up later.
You'll see a tweet form.
It looks like what you
think it looks like.
And we can hopefully protect that
post request from CSRF or CSRF.
>> Steve Kinney: So
I made one booboo in the very beginning,
which is when the booboos get you, right?
A joke that when you're writing
code at home or at work,
you make a booboo in the very beginning,
you just fix it later.
When you're teaching a live coding,
[LAUGH] then you have to go and
act like you have to go kind of start
from where that where we had that detour.
Let me show you the booboo that I made.
The very beginning when I made that table,
I called the ID column
sessionid instead of ID,
right, so, sessions.sessionid.
Instead of session.id, and so
in the very beginning,
in that middleware that we had,
I'll show you in getSession,
even before that, in getSession.
>> Steve Kinney: One of those first
helper functions that I made,
which I guess I can make the point that
having one helper function in one place
means that if I was using this all over my
code base, it would not be the greatest
terrors I've ever caused my codebase was
find and replace gone out of control.
Was originally when I
first wrote the code,
this was ID, I meant this to be sessionid.
So one of the things that we have in
the database now is this sessionid,
userid, and token.
I wish I made this id, so
it was sessions.id, but
I'm not changing the code now.
And this is how tech debt accrues,
everyone, right?
It works, and
I'm not changing the code and
you come to regret that
six to nine months later.
Cool, cool, cool.
You know that thing when you're doing a
PR, whether you're the one opening it, or
you're the one commenting, where the two
of you have just given up and we're just
gonna merge it because nobody wants the
morale on the team to go any further down.
So we have that table in there.
I did make two abstractions,
which did help me.
This create Session, really, all it
does is we make two different tokens.
We make this sessionid, uuid,
could have also been that random hex
that we made before, and
we make this tokenid.
Why did we make two different IDs?
Because one goes in the cookie and
one is gonna be hidden in the form, right?
Because if they somehow got
the ability to send the cookie,
we don't want them to also have
the token right next to it.
Cuz if you put two keys
to launch missile and
you put the two keys on the same key
chain, you haven't really done anything.
So we've got those separate and
we do store them in the database with
my regretful sessionid instead of ID.
But we're here, we deal with it.
I think it's cuz I had it called up here,
whatever, it doesn't matter.
And then we've got this getSession where,
again, I had that mistake earlier that
we've since fixed, which is where
we sessionid matches the sessionid.
We'll go ahead and get a session.
So I've got some abstractions for
getting and setting sessions.
This one is more important, cuz I do
it on both sign up and log in, right?
And so now, we go ahead and
we do, in fact,
when we post to both of those,
we go ahead, we make the user.
There's no user, then we're like, hey,
there's nobody in there with
that username and password.
If there is one, then we go ahead,
we create that session in the database and
then we set the cookie accordingly.
We do basically the same thing
on the account creation.
Then in that current user middleware,
we have to do a little bit more of a dance
than we had previously, where we
start out with that sessionid, right?
We go and get the session.
We can console.log it for sanity.
If there's no session, keep it moving.
Don't even go looking for a user,
cuz you're not gonna find
anything in the database.
At that point, there will be no local for
the user set and no local for
the session set.
But if we did have a session in place,
okay, then ideally we should have a user.
Now, could you write bad code and
if someone deletes their account,
not delete their session and
get weird with it?
No, cuz I don't think they could log in.
So a little more error handling
might be helpful here.
But then we basically set it, so
now we've got access to the token.
We've got access to the userid.
And that kinda creates the same,
little bit more complicated, but
roughly the same flow.
I mean, the last part was just in posts,
we do the same move with the hidden field.
And then when they go to post one,
which is the very
fun endpoint called app.post/ or
app.post/posts.
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
we do the same check that we did in
the last one where we got to do that part.
We can grab the content and
the CSRF token and basically,
yeah, if that's not the one attached
to their session, we want res.locals.
>> Steve Kinney: Then tell them
they're not authorized, right?
And so we've got those same protections on
our post requests now that we had earlier
with a little bit more dance of what we
saw with creating sessions at the very
beginning.
So ideally, what I ate for
lunch today, I had burrito bowl.
>> Steve Kinney: No, now what?
It should be easy.
Local session token, yeah,
that's not what it's called.
>> Steve Kinney: What did I call it?
My last one, so close, so close.
I called it just res.locals.token.
Okay, cool, cool, cool.
>> Steve Kinney: We know the system works.
Cool, and so now we've got it
in there as well, right, and so
we kind of complete the circle.